♪ [music] ♪
Now we need to actually edit the store. So
when we have a button up here and you
click it we're going to be editing the
actual store. So the first thing we need
to do is have a button here.
We'll go into our store's action,
and where we have that button, soon we'll
remove that. And we need a div with the
class of store__action, and a div with
this class of store__action--edit.
And again, if you're not used to this
class naming syntax, this is just BEM.
It helps us write CSS so it's not nested
in a nice, clean fashion.
So that's what we have there.
And then inside of that we need an SVG
icon inside of a link that will be a
pencil. So we'll say a(href=. Now it needs
to be "/store/123/edit").
So we need to make this part, 123, we need
to make that the id of our store.
Now we haven't talked about this yet, but
if we open up our MongoDB Compass here,
and you look at any of your actual stores
here, you'll notice that every single
store had an id identifier that we didn't
give it. So MongoDB by default will assign
a unique id to every piece of content that
you have, every document that is stored in
this database. And we often use this id
for being sort of like a...not necessarily
a primary key, but a way to uniquely
identify a piece of content that will
never be duplicated.
So the way that we do that is we need to
switch this to ``, because we're going to
be generating a string here. And the id is
going to be ${, and inside of that we'll
say store. _id}. That's how you access the
actual id. Then inside of that,
we need a SVG icon that will be a pencil.
And the way that we do that is if you look
at helpers.js, you'll see that I
also have this icon function.
And all it really does is it reads an SVG
file and will include it.
Because you'll know that if you use an
image tag with an SVG, there's no way for
you to set the fill color or style in any
way. It's just a solid image tag.
But if you actually include the SVG code,
then you have full access to working with
that SVG.
So there's a whole bunch of different
ways. You can also use SVG sprites and
whatnot. But this is just a short way that
we can do it without having an additional
request on page load. So we go in here and
we tell Pug that we're going to be writing
some HTMLs. And that's with !=, and you
say h.icon, that's the method that we're
looking for here. And you ask for
('pencil'). And what that's going to do if
we look at it here, it's going to include
all of the code of the SVG that is in
public/images/ icons/pencils.svg. So we've
got that there. Let's refresh it and see
what we've got.
Good. Now we have a pencil icon. And, oh,
real quick. It's not "store," it's
"stores," with an "S" on it. Refresh. Now
click on any one of them,
and you should go to...there you go. You
go to a URL, /stores/ the id of the store
/edit. Now it's going to 404 obviously
because we need to hook up our route in
order for it to work. So we'll go back to
our index.js and we'll write a route for
that specific URL combination.
Do router.get('/stores/ hmm, let's just do
123/edit. So the question now is this part
is going to be dynamic. How do we do a
wild card route that will match anything
of this pattern? Well, what you do is you
put a : and you put the name of the
parameter that is going to be
passed in, so we'll call that id.
And when we visit this page, we're going
to have a variable available to us on our
request object that tells us what the
actual id of the URL is.
Good. Then we can take our storeController
here. Let's preemptively run catchErrors
because you know we're going to need to do
that. And then we're going to say
(storeController. , and we're going to
make one called editStore)).
Good. Now let's go back to our
storeController now, and we'll make a new
method here called editStore,
exports.editStore =, we'll make it async.
Again, a lot of these, any time you're
dealing with database you're going to make
it async. And then I should also say, if
you make something async and you don't end
up actually using anything there's no harm
in doing that. So don't feel like,
"Oh, I'm not sure if I should
make it async or not."
We need to do a couple things. First,
"Find the store given the ID." Two,
we need to "confirm they are the owner of
the store." So that's something we're
going to have to wait on because we don't
have any login sessions just yet.
But we will do that in the future. And
then 3, we need to...well,
that's 4. There's 3. "Render out the edit
form so the user can update their store."
Okay, good. So first things first. "Find
the store given the ID." So how do I get
the ID? Well, there is, I told you, this
request. And on that is going to be
something called "params," which will give
you any parameters that have come through
the URL. Again, what are params? Params
are any time your URL contains something
like this, : and then an actual
value in front of there.
So we can go back into our Controller, and
let's just try res.json(req.params);.
Let's just send back the parameters that
we have, see what we're dealing with.
We'll refresh. And there we go. We're
immediately sending back the id parameter
that we have here. So if I change this to
"123" it's going to give us "123." If I
change it back, there we go. Good.
So we know that req.params.id will give it
to us, but we need to find the specific
store that we have. So let's say const
store =, we'll take our Store model here.
And we'll use the findOne method here, and
this you just pass it a query.
So what is the one piece that we know?
Well, _id: is going to be equal to
req.params.id. And there's a whole bunch
of other methods here.
I believe there's a findByID and there's a
find, which will give us multiple ones.
We'll be looking into quite
a bit more of them.
Now that's not going to work just yet.
Why? Because, you tell me.
What does Store.findOne return? What do
all these queries in MongoDB return?
They don't return the data, they return a
promise, an I. O. U.that the data is going
to come back. So in order for us to put
the actual store into store,
right now it's going to be a promise, we
need to await that promise to be resolved,
or to come back from database.
So there we have the store, and again, we
can just res.json the (store); just to see
if that data is working. So we'll come
here and click on Fish Market.
And you'll see, all right, good. So what's
happening here is we are finding the store
by id, and then we're just sending the
actual JSON object back.
I often like to just JSON the object back
just to make sure that we know what we
have. So good, we have all the data. Let's
try another one.
Let's go to the Bakery. Bakery is working
nicely. Really long store name.
That one's working nicely. Good. But we
don't want to just json it,
so we'll remove that. Confirm the owner of
the store TODO. We can't do that yet
because we don't have any
account login stuff yet.
And then finally, "Render out the edit
form so that the user can update their
store." So we're going to res.render. And
we already have our editStore layout here.
Remember we did this for adding a store?
So we're going to render out the same
form. We'll say render out ('editStore',
and a couple things we're going to be
doing is we're going to pass the {
title:, which is going to be 'Edit Store.
' And you can make that dynamic if you
wanted. You could say 'Edit
$', and that
will make it dynamic.
And then we also want to pass the
storeData. So normally, again,
we'd say store: is equal to store, because
we've got the data right here and we need
to pass that as a param called store. So
you know in ES6 if the parameter name and
the variable that you're passing are
exactly the same thing it's not necessary
to do that. You can just pass store {);
and get the exact same thing.
So give that a Save.
Now we'll go back to our editStore here,
and let's just try a quick dump,
pre= h.dump (store). Let's click on Fish
Market. Good. So you see that we're
actually editing the right store because
now when we edit this view,
the data about the store is pulled from
the database and sent along to the
template. And if we go to Add, you'll see
that there is nothing showing up,
even though this is the same
template. Go back, there we go.
Now the question is, how do I populate
these fields here as well as make sure
that all the checkboxes are checked? Well,
we're going to take that store,
get rid of this dump, and pass it along to
our storeForm. So our storeForm gets the
(store). Then let's open up our storeForm.
Make sure you can spell.
There you go. And then it's going to take
in a store. And this right here,
if we're on the Add screen the store is
going to fall back to an empty object.
If we're on an actual store page, it's
going to actually pass us the store.
That's why we've done this here, because
we're using the form for both creating as
well as editing.
So we'll go to the name here, and we'll
simply go to our input and we'll say
value=store.name. And if there is a
store.name it will be populated.
If not, just nothing will be there.
Let's refresh. There we go,
see? Fish Market on the Edit Fish page is
showing up. Good. Let's go to our
description, and inside description there
is no value on a text area.
So you need to set it. So =
store.description. Let's check that.
Good. So Fish Market "Catch of the day!"
Now we need to have the Wifi and Open
Late, all these tags. So I'm going to go
down here and make a tags array. So we'll
say - const tags = store.tags,
or an empty array. And the reason why I
make it an empty array is because down
here we're going to use the includes
method, and if you try to use
array.includes on something that doesn't
exist it's going to throw and error and
say, "Could not read property
includes of undefined."
So we'll go to our input here. And how do
you make a checkbox checked?
Well, give it a checked property, and
that's = we're going to do () here,
because if you want to run a little bit of
JavaScript you throw a () here.
And we'll say (tags.includes. If the tags
includes no (choice)),
right? So let's say it's Wifi. We're going
to say this huge list of tags,
if it includes the word "Wifi," then it
will return true and checked will be true.
Otherwise it's going to return false, and
Pug knows to just omit that checked
attribute altogether.
Let's give that a Save and see if that
works. There we go. See,
Licensed was checked on that one. Let's go
back to another store.
Bakery, that one has Vegatarian and Open
Late checked, so you can see that they are
checked.
Finally, we need to actually handle the
updating of the URL. And if I were to just
submit this, the form action is going to
post to Add. And we're actually going to
create a second store, not update the
existing store. So we need to edit this
form action in order to appropriately on a
brand new one post to add,
and on an editing one we want to post to
add/ the id of the store.
Okay, we'll go up to this add and we'll
replace it with ``, because again,
every time you use `` it means that you're
trying to generate a string,
rather than just hard quote a string. So
it's going to be /add/ and then we're
going to interpolate some data here,
$ or nothing.
And what that will do is if there is a
store ID, it will pop it in there.
Otherwise, it's just going to be /add. So
let's try that out, and let's inspect on
that form to make sure
it's actually working.
So if we open up our dev tools here to
this form, you see that the action is
/add/58ec, etc, etc. Now if I were to go
to the Add page, you see that the action
is just /add/ nothing. So that's a nice
little trick that we can use so that we
can use the same form to add a new store,
as well as update an existing store.
So let's first test that actually adding a
brand new store still works,
we didn't break anything there. So let's
say "Brew Bar. Good beers." Licensed,
and "Family Friendly. Give it a Save. And,
"Successfully Created Brew Bar." If we go
to our Stores page, you should see, there
we go. Brew Bar is now showing up.
Good.
Now if I edit Brew Bar, and let's say we
say "Really good beers," and give it a
Save. You'll see we get a 404. And did it
actually update itself?
No, there's no "Really good beers," here.
So what's the problem here?
And the reason is that when you actually
try to save one, it's trying to go to
/add/ the ID, which we do not have a route
for yet. Let's go to our index.js.
Here we have a /add, but we don't have one
for /add/id. So what I want you to do is
to just copy that /add, paste it into
another one, because it's
router.post('add', not get. Because this
is post, we're posting to the form.
And we're going to add one for an id. And
then we are going to change the method not
to storeController.createStore,
but to updateStore.
Good. Then we'll go to our Controller. And
you guessed it, then we'll create another
method, exports.updateStore = async,
because we're going to be querying for the
store and then updating it, (req, res), =>
{open that up. All right,
so a couple things that need to happen
here. First, we need to "find and update
the store." And then we need to, "Redirect
them to the store and tell them it
worked."
So first thing that we need to know is
that we will, again, get our new store.
So const store =. We'll take our Store
model and call a method called
findOneAndUpdate. So we could query for
the store, bring it back,
change the data on it, then send it back
to the database and update it.
But findOneAndUpdate is a method in
MongoDB that will allow us to sort of do
it in one fell swoop, which is really,
really nice.
We're going to first...findOneAndUpdate
takes three parameters.
First, the query, second, it takes the
data, and third, it's going to take some
options. So our query is going to be...we
can do this on one line here.
We'll say _id: is going to be equal to
req.body. Or no, req.params {).
Again, remember that that's coming in from
our route.id is defined right here,
so if I called that wes, then it would be
req.params.wes, but it's id in our case.
Then that will find it.
And the second one is, what do we update
it with? Well, we need all of the fields
that have come in from editing our store.
So we'll go to our Stores here.
We'll edit the Brew Bar. And if you were
to pass it all of this data,
we need to then pass that from our
controller over to our database.
So we can pass over the req.body, which
again, is going to be an object filled
with every form field that got sent
over to it. And then third,
there's a couple things that we need to do
here in order to make it work a little bit
differently. So we need to pass some
options here, which is the {.
And we need to say, new: is true. And what
new: is true will do is it will "return
the new store instead of the old one."
And what that means is, by default,
findOneAndUpdate will actually return to
us the old store, not the updated data.
And in our case, we want the updated data
because we need to redirect them to a
specific page. Then we also want to pass a
property called runValidators: and set
that to true. And we're going to run into
this because if we look at our model,
store.js, remember we said it required a
true? So if somebody updates the store to
have no store name, then by default it's
not going to error out. It only runs those
validators against it,
like required, true, trim, true. It only
runs these things on the initial creation,
and we don't want that because somebody
could easily create a store and then go
back and edit it and take the name off of
it. Then we're going to be in a bit of
trouble. So by saying runValidators: true,
that will force our model to run these
required validators against it. And we'll
go into some more advanced validators as
we go along in this class.
So that's what we've got there. Then to
run it, you run exec; on the end.
And some of them by default will not run.
By putting E-X-E-C, exec on the end,
it will actually run the query
that we have here.
Finally, we need to await that data from
coming back again, because this whole
thing right here will return a promise,
and if we await it, it will eventually
bring us back the data and put it in our
stores variable. So we have updated the
value here, then we will say req.flash,
and we want to say ('success',
message when that successful happens. So
we'll say 'Successfully updated.
I'm using ` here so I can put the
$`) right inside of it.
And you could put a
strong tag around
that if you like. And then you
could give them a link to it,
so a href= close it up. And the link will
go to /stores/${store.
slug}". You could say >ViewStore. And then
finally, we're going to redirect them to
the edit page that they were just on, so
we'll say request... or response.
redirect. Sometimes I get the request and
the response mixed up.
That's a fairly common mistake that you
will have. If you have an error,
first just ask yourself, "Did I get my
request and response mixed up?" Because it
is very common. /stores/ grab the ${store.
id}/edit');. Okay, woo.
So find and update the store, run the
validators, tell them it was successfully
updated, and then redirect them to the
edit screen that they were just on.
Good. So let's try it out. So we'll say
"Good beers." We'll change that to "Really
Good beers!" And put an !. Save. Hey,
there we go. We got our flash message
showing up, as well as we have our Brew
Bar here. And we have a link,
I guess, to the actual store to view it,
but we haven't created that page just yet.
That's coming in just a second. Let's
double check that if we add all of the
tags they stay. Good. You can take a
couple off and save it. That will work as
well. Great.
♪ [music] ♪